content/2007-02-28-ala-renewal.markdown, before:

---
layout: wordpress-import
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Do I Want to be a Warrior in ALA's Battle?'
modified: 2007-02-28T19:17:05+00:00
author: Peter Murray
author_login: lyrdor
author_email: jester@dltj.org
author_url: http://dltj.org/about
wordpress_id: 193
wordpress_url: http://dltj.org/2007/02/ala-renewal/
date: '2007-02-28 14:17:05 -0500'
date_gmt: '2007-02-28 19:17:05 -0500'
categories:
- Meta Category
tags:
- libraries
comments:
- id: 12668
  author: caleb
  author_email: caleb@tucker-raymond.net
  author_url: http://www.oregonlibraries.net/staff
  date: '2007-02-28 15:29:44 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2007-02-28 20:29:44 -0500'
  content: "I wholly support your quitting ALA until it proves that it is an organization
    worthy of your membership.\r\n\r\nI quit ALA a few years back. I had an expectation
    that the organizations and communities I join give me some personal benefit, and
    ALA did not, not even the divisions and subdivisions and round tables and square
    tables and offices. The whole bureaucracy made me sick.\r\n\r\nAfter all, the
    L in ALA is for library, not librarians or library staff, and I found little to
    take away from their conferences and publications. I quit ASIS, too (both of the
    esses were too much for me). \r\n\r\nEventually, I found a reason to re-join ALA
    and have been a member again two years running. The advocacy, lobbying and litigation
    that ALA does is worth my membership and support, and I don't really expect them
    to do anything else - expect maybe to lose the war metaphors."
- id: 12669
  author: Carol
  author_email: beanworks@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2007-02-28 16:59:09 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2007-02-28 21:59:09 -0500'
  content: "Yeah, I'm waiting for a good reason to re-join.  All I ever see, though,
    is rhetoric.\r\n\r\nI didn't know that about ACM - that sure looks like a bigger
    bang for the buck!"
- id: 17987
  author: Free Range Librarian &raquo; Blog Archive &raquo; ACRL response, ALA solicits
    website input, varied cheezburgers
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://freerangelibrarian.com/2007/06/07/acrl-response-ala-solicits-website-input-varied-cheezburgers/
  date: '2007-06-12 09:46:25 -0400'
  date_gmt: '2007-06-12 13:46:25 -0400'
  content: "<!--%kramer-ref-pre%-->[...] knows that I&#8217;ve been critical of ALA,
    but for what it&#8217;s worth I find the AL Direct publication a refreshing change
    of openness. I [...]<!--%kramer-ref-post%-->"
- id: 37135
  author: 'Library Garden: A New Role at ALA Annual'
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://librarygarden.blogspot.com/2009/07/new-role-at-ala-annual.html
  date: '2009-07-19 20:28:40 -0400'
  date_gmt: '2009-07-20 00:28:40 -0400'
  content: "<!--%kramer-ref-pre%-->[...] for her work after attending a conference.
    Of course, this is the essence of some librarians&#39; problems with ALA. What
    does one get out of being a member other than the conference?For me, being a member
    [...]<!--%kramer-ref-post%-->"
- id: 38121
  author: A New Role at ALA Annual &laquo; Library Garden
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://librarygarden.net/2009/07/13/a-new-role-at-ala-annual/
  date: '2009-09-13 12:26:37 -0400'
  date_gmt: '2009-09-13 16:26:37 -0400'
  content: "[...] for her work after attending a conference. Of course, this is the
    essence of some librarians&#8217; problems with ALA. What does one get out of
    being a member other than the [...]"
---
<p>Today I received an e-mail from ALA asking me to renew my membership.  An excerpt of the e-mail is included below.  There is a confrontational tone in the message that is very off-putting and also resonates with the reasons why I dislike ALA.  My own emphasis added:</p>
<blockquote><p>
Thank you for this past year of ALA Membership.  Your membership year ends April 30, 2007 and we invite you to renew online today.</p>
<p>In 2007, your membership dues will be hard at work.  A number of new <strong>advocacy</strong> initiatives that <strong>impact</strong> libraries at the state and local level are underway.  For the first time, the Association will offer a series of <strong>advocacy</strong> mini-courses around the country on topics like using research, effective budgeting and passing referenda that are designed for school, academic and public library use.  ALA is stepping up the <strong>fight</strong> <strong>against</strong> TABOR initiatives wherever they arise.  We are <strong>committed</strong> to saving school libraries from <strong>so-called</strong> 65% Solution initiatives which would <strong>dismantle</strong> school libraries or <strong>eliminate</strong> staffing by state-certified school librarians.  And, we are developing and extending materials and training to help rural and tribal libraries succeed.</p>
<p>Please go to www.ala.org/membership and choose 'Renew' to help us <strong>fight</strong> - and <strong>win</strong> -<strong>battles</strong> for the future of libraries.  </p>
<p>Your ALA website login is:<br />
     Login - PMURRAY</p>
<p> --- MEMBERSHIP SUMMARY ---</p>
<p>Member Type:</p>
<p>    $110.00 R             Regular Membership Basic Dues<br />
     $60.00 LITA.         Library and Information Technology Association</p>
<p>     Prepaid Amount: $0.00<br />
     Balance Due:       $170.00</p>
<p>[...]</p>
<p>Renewing your ALA Membership today means improving advocacy efforts that increase support-and funding-for libraries of all types. There is a lot <strong>at stake</strong> for us as individuals and for the communities we serve.  Please renew now to help <strong>fight</strong> and <strong>win</strong> substantial advocacy <strong>battles</strong>.</p>
<p>Sincerely, </p>
<p>John Chrastka<br />
Manager for Membership Development<br />
and personal member
</p></blockquote>
<p>Admittedly, I was not in Seattle last month so I may be a little out of tune with the workings of my association, but has there been a declaration of war that I missed?  Is there really a battle underway for the hearts and minds of our patrons?  Is this the only reason ALA exists?  Perhaps this is a personal bias, but this message conjures up mental images of <a href="/article/marc-oil/">feuding over MARC tags</a> and mind-numbing debate of resolutions during ALA membership sessions that would seem to have very little to do with the real world.</p>
<p>Don't get me wrong &mdash; I think there is a lot libraries could be doing differently and better in service to our patrons.  Why else would this jester be in front of you dancing and juggling and telling stories?  But there is so much more that I expect my association to be doing that to pursue a renewal campaign with this tone makes me wonder if it is really worthwhile to pay $170 to support this association.  </p>
<p>As I was writing the text of this post, I started thinking about other the organizations whose missions are closely enough aligned with my world view that I am a member.  For instance, I'm a member of the Association for Computing Machinery at a rate of $100/year for which I get more content (the useful/relevant <i>Communications of the ACM</i> journal and the <a href="http://pd.acm.org/books/books.cfm" title="ACM Professional Development Centre Books Program">full text of nearly 1,000 books</a>) and professional development support (over 1,000 ThomsonNETg&reg; <a href="http://pd.acm.org/cp_home.cfm" title="ACM Professional Development Centre Online Courses program">online course modules</a>) plus a certain amount of important advocacy that I believe in.  I am also a member of a local church community (for which there are dues of a sort) where I get personal fulfillment plus a way to magnify my talents and interests in support of my vision of a better world.</p>
<p>So why am I a member of ALA?  To get a discount registration to a conference that is so large and unfocused that is pales in comparison to other highly content dense and professionally engaging meetings?  To get a "professional journal" that is more like a trade press magazine with hidden gems that a few and far between?  To do battle with the forces of evil facing libraries everywhere?</p>
<p>Do I need to be a member of ALA?  Would the Web4Lib mailing list go away if I was not a member?  Would the Code4Lib IRC channel disappear?  Would the Code4Lib annual meetings suddenly stop?  (I really hope to get to next year's meeting!)  Would I be prevented from hearing and debating the views of a wide variety of colleagues through their blog writing?</p>
<p>Too many questions.  More so than any other year, I'm really on the fence about whether or not to renew.</p>

Commit message:

META Fix titles and categories from WordPress

content/2007-02-28-ala-renewal.markdown, after:

---
layout: wordpress-import
status: published
published: true
title: 'Do I Want to be a Warrior in ALA''s Battle?'
modified: 2007-02-28T19:17:05+00:00
author: Peter Murray
author_login: lyrdor
author_email: jester@dltj.org
author_url: http://dltj.org/about
wordpress_id: 193
wordpress_url: http://dltj.org/2007/02/ala-renewal/
date: '2007-02-28 14:17:05 -0500'
date_gmt: '2007-02-28 19:17:05 -0500'
category: Meta Category
categories:
- Meta Category
tags:
- libraries
comments:
- id: 12668
  author: caleb
  author_email: caleb@tucker-raymond.net
  author_url: http://www.oregonlibraries.net/staff
  date: '2007-02-28 15:29:44 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2007-02-28 20:29:44 -0500'
  content: "I wholly support your quitting ALA until it proves that it is an organization
    worthy of your membership.\r\n\r\nI quit ALA a few years back. I had an expectation
    that the organizations and communities I join give me some personal benefit, and
    ALA did not, not even the divisions and subdivisions and round tables and square
    tables and offices. The whole bureaucracy made me sick.\r\n\r\nAfter all, the
    L in ALA is for library, not librarians or library staff, and I found little to
    take away from their conferences and publications. I quit ASIS, too (both of the
    esses were too much for me). \r\n\r\nEventually, I found a reason to re-join ALA
    and have been a member again two years running. The advocacy, lobbying and litigation
    that ALA does is worth my membership and support, and I don't really expect them
    to do anything else - expect maybe to lose the war metaphors."
- id: 12669
  author: Carol
  author_email: beanworks@gmail.com
  author_url: ''
  date: '2007-02-28 16:59:09 -0500'
  date_gmt: '2007-02-28 21:59:09 -0500'
  content: "Yeah, I'm waiting for a good reason to re-join.  All I ever see, though,
    is rhetoric.\r\n\r\nI didn't know that about ACM - that sure looks like a bigger
    bang for the buck!"
- id: 17987
  author: Free Range Librarian &raquo; Blog Archive &raquo; ACRL response, ALA solicits
    website input, varied cheezburgers
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://freerangelibrarian.com/2007/06/07/acrl-response-ala-solicits-website-input-varied-cheezburgers/
  date: '2007-06-12 09:46:25 -0400'
  date_gmt: '2007-06-12 13:46:25 -0400'
  content: "<!--%kramer-ref-pre%-->[...] knows that I&#8217;ve been critical of ALA,
    but for what it&#8217;s worth I find the AL Direct publication a refreshing change
    of openness. I [...]<!--%kramer-ref-post%-->"
- id: 37135
  author: 'Library Garden: A New Role at ALA Annual'
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://librarygarden.blogspot.com/2009/07/new-role-at-ala-annual.html
  date: '2009-07-19 20:28:40 -0400'
  date_gmt: '2009-07-20 00:28:40 -0400'
  content: "<!--%kramer-ref-pre%-->[...] for her work after attending a conference.
    Of course, this is the essence of some librarians&#39; problems with ALA. What
    does one get out of being a member other than the conference?For me, being a member
    [...]<!--%kramer-ref-post%-->"
- id: 38121
  author: A New Role at ALA Annual &laquo; Library Garden
  author_email: ''
  author_url: http://librarygarden.net/2009/07/13/a-new-role-at-ala-annual/
  date: '2009-09-13 12:26:37 -0400'
  date_gmt: '2009-09-13 16:26:37 -0400'
  content: "[...] for her work after attending a conference. Of course, this is the
    essence of some librarians&#8217; problems with ALA. What does one get out of
    being a member other than the [...]"
---
<p>Today I received an e-mail from ALA asking me to renew my membership.  An excerpt of the e-mail is included below.  There is a confrontational tone in the message that is very off-putting and also resonates with the reasons why I dislike ALA.  My own emphasis added:</p>
<blockquote><p>
Thank you for this past year of ALA Membership.  Your membership year ends April 30, 2007 and we invite you to renew online today.</p>
<p>In 2007, your membership dues will be hard at work.  A number of new <strong>advocacy</strong> initiatives that <strong>impact</strong> libraries at the state and local level are underway.  For the first time, the Association will offer a series of <strong>advocacy</strong> mini-courses around the country on topics like using research, effective budgeting and passing referenda that are designed for school, academic and public library use.  ALA is stepping up the <strong>fight</strong> <strong>against</strong> TABOR initiatives wherever they arise.  We are <strong>committed</strong> to saving school libraries from <strong>so-called</strong> 65% Solution initiatives which would <strong>dismantle</strong> school libraries or <strong>eliminate</strong> staffing by state-certified school librarians.  And, we are developing and extending materials and training to help rural and tribal libraries succeed.</p>
<p>Please go to www.ala.org/membership and choose 'Renew' to help us <strong>fight</strong> - and <strong>win</strong> -<strong>battles</strong> for the future of libraries.  </p>
<p>Your ALA website login is:<br />
     Login - PMURRAY</p>
<p> --- MEMBERSHIP SUMMARY ---</p>
<p>Member Type:</p>
<p>    $110.00 R             Regular Membership Basic Dues<br />
     $60.00 LITA.         Library and Information Technology Association</p>
<p>     Prepaid Amount: $0.00<br />
     Balance Due:       $170.00</p>
<p>[...]</p>
<p>Renewing your ALA Membership today means improving advocacy efforts that increase support-and funding-for libraries of all types. There is a lot <strong>at stake</strong> for us as individuals and for the communities we serve.  Please renew now to help <strong>fight</strong> and <strong>win</strong> substantial advocacy <strong>battles</strong>.</p>
<p>Sincerely, </p>
<p>John Chrastka<br />
Manager for Membership Development<br />
and personal member
</p></blockquote>
<p>Admittedly, I was not in Seattle last month so I may be a little out of tune with the workings of my association, but has there been a declaration of war that I missed?  Is there really a battle underway for the hearts and minds of our patrons?  Is this the only reason ALA exists?  Perhaps this is a personal bias, but this message conjures up mental images of <a href="/article/marc-oil/">feuding over MARC tags</a> and mind-numbing debate of resolutions during ALA membership sessions that would seem to have very little to do with the real world.</p>
<p>Don't get me wrong &mdash; I think there is a lot libraries could be doing differently and better in service to our patrons.  Why else would this jester be in front of you dancing and juggling and telling stories?  But there is so much more that I expect my association to be doing that to pursue a renewal campaign with this tone makes me wonder if it is really worthwhile to pay $170 to support this association.  </p>
<p>As I was writing the text of this post, I started thinking about other the organizations whose missions are closely enough aligned with my world view that I am a member.  For instance, I'm a member of the Association for Computing Machinery at a rate of $100/year for which I get more content (the useful/relevant <i>Communications of the ACM</i> journal and the <a href="http://pd.acm.org/books/books.cfm" title="ACM Professional Development Centre Books Program">full text of nearly 1,000 books</a>) and professional development support (over 1,000 ThomsonNETg&reg; <a href="http://pd.acm.org/cp_home.cfm" title="ACM Professional Development Centre Online Courses program">online course modules</a>) plus a certain amount of important advocacy that I believe in.  I am also a member of a local church community (for which there are dues of a sort) where I get personal fulfillment plus a way to magnify my talents and interests in support of my vision of a better world.</p>
<p>So why am I a member of ALA?  To get a discount registration to a conference that is so large and unfocused that is pales in comparison to other highly content dense and professionally engaging meetings?  To get a "professional journal" that is more like a trade press magazine with hidden gems that a few and far between?  To do battle with the forces of evil facing libraries everywhere?</p>
<p>Do I need to be a member of ALA?  Would the Web4Lib mailing list go away if I was not a member?  Would the Code4Lib IRC channel disappear?  Would the Code4Lib annual meetings suddenly stop?  (I really hope to get to next year's meeting!)  Would I be prevented from hearing and debating the views of a wide variety of colleagues through their blog writing?</p>
<p>Too many questions.  More so than any other year, I'm really on the fence about whether or not to renew.</p>
