content/2025-04-11-tesla-takedown-protest-signs.md, before:

---
title: "My Public Archive of #TeslaTakedown Protest Signs"
modified: 
category: Personal
categories:
- Personal
tags:
- politics
summary: "A running list of the protest signs I'm using on #TeslaTakedown days. Many of them include links to PDFs that you can download to make your own."
---

The {{ robustlink(href="https://www.teslatakedown.com/", versionurl="https://web.archive.org/web/20250410232846/https://www.teslatakedown.com/", versiondate="2025-04-10", title="Tesla Takedown homepage", anchor="#TeslaTakedown protests") }} have gone on long enough that it is time to make a public archive of signs. 
For the latest signs, I've included a link where you can download a PDF to print your own. 
Please use these if you'd like; if you want to give me something in exchange, just tag me on [Mastodon](https://code4lib.social/@dltj/) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/dltj.org/) so I know how far these have spread. 


## Disaster Musk {: #disaster-musk}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-04-12-protest-sign.jpg", alt='The image features the &ldquo;Disaster Girl&rdquo; meme with a twist: the face of Elon Musk is pasted over the girl’s. In the background, a house is engulfed in flames, with firefighters and onlookers nearby. The expression conveys a sense of mischievous calm amid chaos, adding humor to the scene.', caption="<i>Disaster Musk</i> protest sign, first used on 12-Apr-2025") }} 

A few weeks ago, I saw the picture of a  {{ robustlink(href="https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/29/us/politics/elon-musk-trump-wisconsin-supreme-court-election.html?unlocked_article_code=1.-k4.eg-p.QaQaQy4kTv-e&smid=url-share", versionurl="https://web.archive.org/web/20250330170622/https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/29/us/politics/elon-musk-trump-wisconsin-supreme-court-election.html", versiondate="2025-03-30", title="What’s More Powerful: Elon Musk’s Millions, or Liberal Anger at Him? | New York Times", anchor="smirking Elon Musk in a New York Times article") }}, and I knew I needed to make use of it somehow. 
Inspiration struck this week when I remembered the {{ robustlink(href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disaster_Girl", versionurl="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Disaster_Girl&oldid=1278902667", versiondate="2025-04-10", title="Disaster Girl | Wikipedia", anchor="'Disaster Girl' meme") }}. 
The picture with a four-year-old girl looking back at the camera as a firefighters battle a house fire with the "devilish smirk" is a perfect fit for what Elon is doing to our federal government.

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Disaster%20Musk%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## Get Angry at Billionaires {: #get-angry-at-billionaires}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-04-05-protest-sign.jpg", alt='The protest sign features bold text against a bright red background, stating, &ldquo;I&apos;m not MAD at you. Don&apos;t be MAD at me. Let&apos;s both get ANGRY at the BILLIONAIRES RUINING the COUNTRY.&rdquo; The words &ldquo;MAD,&rdquo; &ldquo;ANGRY,&rdquo; and &ldquo;BILLIONAIRES&rdquo; are emphasized in larger, eye-catching fonts. On the right side, there&apos;s an image of a smiling Elon Musk, crossed out with a red circle and line, signifying opposition. The overall design is vivid, conveying frustration towards billionaires.', caption="<i>Get Angry at Billionaires</i> protest sign, first used on 5-Apr-2025.") }} 

Returning to the theme of my first protest sign, I wanted to convey that the people giving us the middle finger as they drive by have more in common with us than they do with the billionaires they are supporting. 
Or, if you still want to be up in arms with me, then just come stand an hour at the protest and get your free check from George Soros for protesting. (← <i>sarcasm</i>)

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Get%20Angry%20at%20Billionaires%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## Signals {: #signals}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-29-protest-sign.png", alt='The protest sign features bold red text saying, &ldquo;The SIGNAL is coming from INSIDE the house!&rdquo; Surrounding the text are cut-out images of six individuals, indicating figures of political or public interest. In the background, an image of the White House is visible, with the American flag prominently displayed.', caption="<i>Signals</i> protest sign, first used on 29-Mar-2025.") }} 

This was the week that the news broke about senior government officials using the consumer-grade chat app <em>Signal</em> to discuss warn plans. 
I went off-script that week with a sign about that political nonsense. 
It is a play on the phrase "The call is coming from inside the house!" — a play on a {{ robustlink(href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_babysitter_and_the_man_upstairs", versionurl="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_babysitter_and_the_man_upstairs&oldid=1281634897", versiondate="2025-03-29", title="The babysitter and the man upstairs | Wikipedia", anchor="famous movie trope") }} where the police tell the person in a home that they have traced the antagonist's call to that home. 
In this case, the danger to democracy is coming from _inside the Whitehouse!_ 
Or, at least, that is what I was aiming for. 

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Signal%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## Elon MUSKed Up {: #elon-musked-up}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-22-protest-sign.png", alt="Protest sign with bold text: 'Our GOVERNMENT was FINE' in black and blue, followed by 'Now it is MUSKed UP!' in red. An image of Elon Musk is crossed out with a red circle and line. The bottom displays 'Fire Elon' in flaming orange letters.", caption="<i>Elon MUSKed Up</i>, first used on 22-Mar-2025") }} 

Back to basics, I thought. 
People are driving by quickly, so too much text won't be read. 
So this was the idea:

- Set the context: "Our GOVERNMENT was FINE."
- Deliver the punchline: "Now it is MUSKed UP!"
- Clear call-to-action: "FIRE ELON!" (in a flaming font, nonetheless)

And that seemed to work.
This might have been my best sign yet.

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Elon%20MUSKed%20Up%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## DEMOCRACY, not MUSKocracy, not TRUMPocracy {: #democracy-not-muskocracy-trumpocracy}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-15-protest-sign.png", alt="Protest sign featuring the words &ldquo;DEMOCRACY&rdquo; in bold blue letters, with &ldquo;Kings and Oligarchs are not American&rdquo; in red and blue beneath. Images of Elon Musk and Donald Trump are crossed out with red circles and lines. The sign reads &ldquo;Not MUSKocracy, Not TRUMPocracy&rdquo; in bold blue and red text.", caption="DEMOCRACY, not MUSKocracy, not TRUMPocracy protest sign, first used 15-Mar-2025.") }} 

This was my second protest sign, and I'm clearly still working on the craft. 
Although the points of this sign didn't require a blog post to explain, it still had too many words on it. 
That made it hard to read from cars that were driving by. 
It might have been okay without the "Kings and Oligarchs are not American" in the middle, but without it I thought it lost its punch. 
I'm feeling pretty ambivalent about it, so I haven't gone through the process of making it available for download; let me know if you'd like to have a printable version.


## Our Fellow Americans {: #our-fellow-americans}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-08-protest-sign.png", alt="Protest poster in red, white, and blue. It says “Our fellow Americans” with arrows pointing left, down, and right. Underneath it says: “How much do you have in common with Elon Musk?”", caption="<i>Our Fellow Americans</i> protest sign, first used on 8-Mar-2025.") }} 

This is the first sign I made for a #TeslaTakedown, and I should have listened to my family. 
They suggested that the initial version, without the "How much do you have in common with Elon Musk?" at the bottom, was too confusing. 
Adding that sentence improved understanding, but now there was too much to read in a protest sign for cars whizzing past. 
My point was that me and the person driving by giving me a middle finger have far more in common than what either of us have with Elon Musk (and Donald Trump). 
Even so, I felt like I needed a [blog post to fully explain what I meant]({filename}2025-03-08-tesla-takedown-march-8).
I'm feeling pretty ambivalent about this one, too, but if you'd like a printable version please let me know.

Although this was my first sign, it was my second #TeslaTakedown protest. 
I learned quickly that signs are an important part of the protest spirit, and the more creative the better.

Commit message:

Add new protest signs, link to freeprotestsigns.org

content/2025-04-11-tesla-takedown-protest-signs.md, after:

---
title: "My Public Archive of #TeslaTakedown Protest Signs"
modified: 2025-04-25
category: Personal
categories:
- Personal
tags:
- politics
summary: "A running list of the protest signs I'm using on #TeslaTakedown days. Many of them include links to PDFs that you can download to make your own."
---

The {{ robustlink(href="https://www.teslatakedown.com/", versionurl="https://web.archive.org/web/20250410232846/https://www.teslatakedown.com/", versiondate="2025-04-10", title="Tesla Takedown homepage", anchor="#TeslaTakedown protests") }} have gone on long enough that it is time to make a public archive of signs. 
For the latest signs, I've included a link where you can download a PDF to print your own. 
Please use these if you'd like; if you want to give me something in exchange, just tag me on [Mastodon](https://code4lib.social/@dltj/) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/dltj.org/) so I know how far these have spread. 

Also, Marc Lee from {{ robustlink(href="https://freeprotestsigns.org/", versionurl="https://web.archive.org/web/20250424000611/https://freeprotestsigns.org/", versiondate="2025-04-24", title="Free Protest Signs homepage", anchor="Free Protest Signs") }} reached out on Bluesky to let me know about his website of signs. 
If you don't like something below, maybe one of his will suit your mood!


## All of the ABOVE! {: #all-of-the-above}
{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-04-26-protest-sign.jpg", alt='The image features the &ldquo;Disaster Girl&rdquo; meme with a twist: the face of Elon Musk is pasted over the girl’s. In the background, a house is engulfed in flames, with firefighters and onlookers nearby. The expression conveys a sense of mischievous calm amid chaos, adding humor to the scene.', caption="<i>All of the ABOVE!</i> protest sign, first used on 26-Apr-2025") }} 

The meanness, the illegality, the stupidity...it is all more than I thought possible and it is certainly not what deserve from our government. 
And it is not just one of these attributes, but all of them coming from all of this administration's elected, confirmed, and senior leaders. 

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/All%20of%20the%20ABOVE!%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign. 


## Elected Assholes {: #elected-assholes}
{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-04-19a-protest-sign.jpg", alt='The image features the &ldquo;Disaster Girl&rdquo; meme with a twist: the face of Elon Musk is pasted over the girl’s. In the background, a house is engulfed in flames, with firefighters and onlookers nearby. The expression conveys a sense of mischievous calm amid chaos, adding humor to the scene.', caption="<i>Elected Assholes</i> protest sign, not used by the author") }} 

This crap is well past getting out of hand, and I wanted a sign that reflected that. 
The government—in my name as one of its citizens—is deporting people without due process? 
It is bullying foreign leaders in the Oval Office? 
It is recklessly dismantling medical research, food safety programs, and environmental controls?
This doesn't represent my values, nor—I'd wager—the values of most of the country.

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Assholes%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign. 
Or download [its more vulgar companion](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Vulgar%20Assholes%20protest%20sign.pdf).


## Disaster Musk {: #disaster-musk}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-04-12-protest-sign.jpg", alt='The image features the &ldquo;Disaster Girl&rdquo; meme with a twist: the face of Elon Musk is pasted over the girl’s. In the background, a house is engulfed in flames, with firefighters and onlookers nearby. The expression conveys a sense of mischievous calm amid chaos, adding humor to the scene.', caption="<i>Disaster Musk</i> protest sign, first used on 12-Apr-2025") }} 

A few weeks ago, I saw the picture of a  {{ robustlink(href="https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/29/us/politics/elon-musk-trump-wisconsin-supreme-court-election.html?unlocked_article_code=1.-k4.eg-p.QaQaQy4kTv-e&smid=url-share", versionurl="https://web.archive.org/web/20250330170622/https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/29/us/politics/elon-musk-trump-wisconsin-supreme-court-election.html", versiondate="2025-03-30", title="What’s More Powerful: Elon Musk’s Millions, or Liberal Anger at Him? | New York Times", anchor="smirking Elon Musk in a New York Times article") }}, and I knew I needed to make use of it somehow. 
Inspiration struck this week when I remembered the {{ robustlink(href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disaster_Girl", versionurl="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Disaster_Girl&oldid=1278902667", versiondate="2025-04-10", title="Disaster Girl | Wikipedia", anchor="'Disaster Girl' meme") }}. 
The picture with a four-year-old girl looking back at the camera as a firefighters battle a house fire with the "devilish smirk" is a perfect fit for what Elon is doing to our federal government.

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Disaster%20Musk%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## Get Angry at Billionaires {: #get-angry-at-billionaires}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-04-05-protest-sign.jpg", alt='The protest sign features bold text against a bright red background, stating, &ldquo;I&apos;m not MAD at you. Don&apos;t be MAD at me. Let&apos;s both get ANGRY at the BILLIONAIRES RUINING the COUNTRY.&rdquo; The words &ldquo;MAD,&rdquo; &ldquo;ANGRY,&rdquo; and &ldquo;BILLIONAIRES&rdquo; are emphasized in larger, eye-catching fonts. On the right side, there&apos;s an image of a smiling Elon Musk, crossed out with a red circle and line, signifying opposition. The overall design is vivid, conveying frustration towards billionaires.', caption="<i>Get Angry at Billionaires</i> protest sign, first used on 5-Apr-2025.") }} 

Returning to the theme of my first protest sign, I wanted to convey that the people giving us the middle finger as they drive by have more in common with us than they do with the billionaires they are supporting. 
Or, if you still want to be up in arms with me, then just come stand an hour at the protest and get your free check from George Soros for protesting. (← <i>sarcasm</i>)

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Get%20Angry%20at%20Billionaires%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## Signals {: #signals}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-29-protest-sign.png", alt='The protest sign features bold red text saying, &ldquo;The SIGNAL is coming from INSIDE the house!&rdquo; Surrounding the text are cut-out images of six individuals, indicating figures of political or public interest. In the background, an image of the White House is visible, with the American flag prominently displayed.', caption="<i>Signals</i> protest sign, first used on 29-Mar-2025.") }} 

This was the week that the news broke about senior government officials using the consumer-grade chat app <em>Signal</em> to discuss warn plans. 
I went off-script that week with a sign about that political nonsense. 
It is a play on the phrase "The call is coming from inside the house!" — a play on a {{ robustlink(href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_babysitter_and_the_man_upstairs", versionurl="https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_babysitter_and_the_man_upstairs&oldid=1281634897", versiondate="2025-03-29", title="The babysitter and the man upstairs | Wikipedia", anchor="famous movie trope") }} where the police tell the person in a home that they have traced the antagonist's call to that home. 
In this case, the danger to democracy is coming from _inside the Whitehouse!_ 
Or, at least, that is what I was aiming for. 

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Signal%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## Elon MUSKed Up {: #elon-musked-up}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-22-protest-sign.png", alt="Protest sign with bold text: 'Our GOVERNMENT was FINE' in black and blue, followed by 'Now it is MUSKed UP!' in red. An image of Elon Musk is crossed out with a red circle and line. The bottom displays 'Fire Elon' in flaming orange letters.", caption="<i>Elon MUSKed Up</i>, first used on 22-Mar-2025") }} 

Back to basics, I thought. 
People are driving by quickly, so too much text won't be read. 
So this was the idea:

- Set the context: "Our GOVERNMENT was FINE."
- Deliver the punchline: "Now it is MUSKed UP!"
- Clear call-to-action: "FIRE ELON!" (in a flaming font, nonetheless)

And that seemed to work.
This might have been my best sign yet.

[Download](https://dltj.org/assets/attachments/Elon%20MUSKed%20Up%20protest%20sign.pdf) and print your own 26" by 16" version of this sign.


## DEMOCRACY, not MUSKocracy, not TRUMPocracy {: #democracy-not-muskocracy-trumpocracy}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-15-protest-sign.png", alt="Protest sign featuring the words &ldquo;DEMOCRACY&rdquo; in bold blue letters, with &ldquo;Kings and Oligarchs are not American&rdquo; in red and blue beneath. Images of Elon Musk and Donald Trump are crossed out with red circles and lines. The sign reads &ldquo;Not MUSKocracy, Not TRUMPocracy&rdquo; in bold blue and red text.", caption="DEMOCRACY, not MUSKocracy, not TRUMPocracy protest sign, first used 15-Mar-2025.") }} 

This was my second protest sign, and I'm clearly still working on the craft. 
Although the points of this sign didn't require a blog post to explain, it still had too many words on it. 
That made it hard to read from cars that were driving by. 
It might have been okay without the "Kings and Oligarchs are not American" in the middle, but without it I thought it lost its punch. 
I'm feeling pretty ambivalent about it, so I haven't gone through the process of making it available for download; let me know if you'd like to have a printable version.


## Our Fellow Americans {: #our-fellow-americans}

{{ image(width="600", localsrc="2025/2025-03-08-protest-sign.png", alt="Protest poster in red, white, and blue. It says “Our fellow Americans” with arrows pointing left, down, and right. Underneath it says: “How much do you have in common with Elon Musk?”", caption="<i>Our Fellow Americans</i> protest sign, first used on 8-Mar-2025.") }} 

This is the first sign I made for a #TeslaTakedown, and I should have listened to my family. 
They suggested that the initial version, without the "How much do you have in common with Elon Musk?" at the bottom, was too confusing. 
Adding that sentence improved understanding, but now there was too much to read in a protest sign for cars whizzing past. 
My point was that me and the person driving by giving me a middle finger have far more in common than what either of us have with Elon Musk (and Donald Trump). 
Even so, I felt like I needed a [blog post to fully explain what I meant]({filename}2025-03-08-tesla-takedown-march-8).
I'm feeling pretty ambivalent about this one, too, but if you'd like a printable version please let me know.

Although this was my first sign, it was my second #TeslaTakedown protest. 
I learned quickly that signs are an important part of the protest spirit, and the more creative the better.
